# md2apkg-run

- This code works as described below, despite the terse file structure you see in this repo. The magic happens within the GitHub Action definition. 
- MIT License applies to all files in this repository
- [See also `md2apkg`'s license](https://github.com/Steve2955/md2apkg/blob/main/LICENSE.md)

## Quickstart Guide

1. Create a new repo from template (use the big green button above)
2. Edit the Markdown file `Deck/index.md` to include your desired deck name
  - See [`md2apkg` docs](https://github.com/Steve2955/md2apkg) to understand how to write flashcards in Markdown using `md2apkg`
  - See [md2apkg-run-demo](https://github.com/asa55/md2apkg-run-demo) to see `md2apkg-run` in action, and for more detail on how to construct decks using `md2apkg-run`
3. Push your changes (i.e. commit directly to main branch)
4. Click the `Actions` tab
5. Click `Run md2apkg converter` beneath `All workflows`
6. Click `Run workflow`
7. Click `Run md2apkg converter` beneath `workflow runs`
8. Click `flashcards` under `Artifacts produced during runtime`
  - This will initiate a download of the `.zip` file containing the `Deck.apkg` Anki flashcard deck, which you just built from you `.md` files in the previous steps
  - You can then import your `Deck.apkg` directly into Anki using the desktop or mobile app (you'll just need to unzip/extract it after downloading)

## Who is this for?

If you like Anki flashcards, and want to make your own custom decks using Markdown, [`md2apkg`](https://github.com/Steve2955/md2apkg) can help (`md2apkg-run` is built on but unaffiliated with [`md2apkg`](https://github.com/Steve2955/md2apkg)).
I didn't want to download or run `md2apkg` on my computer. GitHub Actions could easily simplify this last step.
This is where `md2apkg-run` comes in. It is a thin wrapper around `md2apkg` that lets you write your flashcards and export them as Anki-compatible flashcard decks (`.apkg` files), all without ever leaving the GitHub web interface.

## Future

- Auto-tagging is currently the only way to apply tags (make subdirectories under `Deck/` and tagging is done for you)
  - Future work would be to enable the ability for users to apply their own custom tags using `md2apkg` tagging syntax and having them appended to the autogenerated tags
- The GitHub Actions workflow definition does a lot of heavy lifting that should really be split out into an action project that can be referenced as such from other projects
  - Functionally this won't change the behavior of `md2apkg-run`, it's just good housekeeping. There comes a point where you have to decide if the juice is worth the squeeze, and I put a decent amount of time into building out v2.0.0 which works well for my intended purpose. If others are interested and show that interest by dropping me a line or starring this repository, I will use that as an indicator that it may be worth putting more time into this project.
  
## Important Note
  
I'm using this repository as a template for flashcards I'm making. This code works. If you're reading this some time in the future and wondering if this code is too stale to use, look for an `Archive` tag on the repository. If it's not archived, it still functions. Whether or not I'm actively contributing to this repo, I'll keep a pulse on this over time.
